
# Optimal transportation policy 

## Definition
###  Transportation policy
1. Public transit: Frequency and Fares
   1. Bus
   2. Train
2. Private vehicle: Road pricing
3. Ride-hailing

###  Optimal
Maximize total welfare, accounting for the cost of congestion and environmental externalities.

### Summary
In this paper, we measure the welfare effects of urban transportation policies and
explore how a budget-constrained planner should choose among a portfolio of
policies. Based on a theoretical framework, we derive expressions for optimal
policies that show that budget considerations introduce inefficiencies. We then
quantify empirically the welfare effects of such policies in Chicago by constructing
a dataset that captures granular mode choices across the city. Our results show
that the government can undo the “monopoly” distortions that arise due to budget
considerations by using road pricing revenues to cross-subsidize public transit.
Indeed, recent transit policies in London and New York explicitly designate the
revenues from road pricing to fund public transit. Our results highlight that such
combined policy approaches can eliminate inefficiencies.

## Market 

### Demand side

Travelers choose between modes of transportation based on their prices and **travel times**.

### Supply side

**Travel time** depend on 
- The infrastructure of the road network. (car, bus)
- The frequency of public transit. (train)

### Equilibrium
Given the price $p$ and travel time $t$, travelers choose the mode that maximizes their utility, generating the demand $q$.
Given the quality (infrastructure+frequency) $k$ and the demand $q$, the transportation infrastructure gives the travel time $t$.

The government sets the price $p$ and the quality (infrastructure+frequency) $k$ of the transportation system.
Then, the total demand $q$ and the travel time $t$ are jointly determined by the equilibrium.

## Road map

1. Estimate demand coefficient/parameter $\theta$ such that $q(p,t)$ fits the observed $q$. 
2. Estimate supply side/transportation parameter $\beta$ such that $t(q,k)$ fits the observed $t$. 
3. Derive the optimal policy $p^*$ and $k^*$ based on those parameter estimates $\theta$ and $\beta$. 
4. Then compare the status quo and the scenario under the optimal policy in terms of welfare change.

## Model
Demand: q(p, t)
Supply: t(q, k)
Central planner: xxx

### Demand side 

### Supply side 

## Estimation

### Demand side

### Supply side

### Equilibrium

## Optimal policy 

## Discussion and Conclusion



## Data: 

Market: origin - destination - time pair.
For each market, we can use google map API to get the travel time and route for each mode of transportation.

1. Public transit:
- departure stop and time
- (inferred) arrival stop and time
- fare

2. Private vehicle:
- sequence of GPS coordinates from mobile-phone location data (We infer all motorized trips from the sequence of GPS coordinates for each individual device. Subtract those trips that are from public transit and ride hailing.)

  
3. Ride-hailing:
- pick-up location and time
- drop-off location and time
--> trip duration and distance

Social-economic characteristics based on residential location:
- income
- car ownership

## Summary statistics

- trip by mode and income
- travel time by mode 
- price by mode
- car ownership by income
- bus utilization over the day
- relationship between flow of vehicles and travel time




